+++
abstract = "Synovial sarcoma is characterized by the presence of a fusion protein involving SYT and SSX2. In this issue of Cancer Cell, Haldar et al. have genetically engineered a mouse model of this disease. They show that expression of the SYT-SSX2 fusion gene yields a highly penetrant and representative model of human synovial sarcoma, but only if expression occurs in a particular biologic context. The mouse model will be a valuable resource for studying tumor biology but is also a striking example of how important understanding of normal tissue and developmental biology is to our understanding of cancer."
abstract_short = "Synovial sarcoma is characterized by the presence of a fusion protein involving SYT and SSX2. In this issue of Cancer Cell, Haldar et al. have genetically engineered a mouse model of this disease. They show that expression of the SYT-SSX2 fusion gene yields a highly penetrant and representative model of human synovial sarcoma, but only if expression occurs in a particular biologic context. The mouse model will be a valuable resource for studying tumor biology but is also a striking example of how important understanding of normal tissue and developmental biology is to our understanding of cancer."
authors = [ "SR Davis, PS Meltzer"  ] 
date = "2007-04-10"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "Cancer Cell. 2007 Apr;11(4):375-88"
publication_short = "Cancer Cell"
selected = false
title = "Modeling synovial sarcoma: timing is everything."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17418406"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

