+++
abstract = "The domestic dog exhibits greater diversity in body size than any other terrestrial vertebrate. We used a strategy that exploits the breed structure of dogs to investigate the genetic basis of size. First, through a genome-wide scan, we identified a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 15 influencing size variation within a single breed. Second, we examined genetic variation in the 15-megabase interval surrounding the QTL in small and giant breeds and found marked evidence for a selective sweep spanning a single gene (IGF1), encoding insulin-like growth factor 1. A single IGF1 single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotype is common to all small breeds and nearly absent from giant breeds, suggesting that the same causal sequence variant is a major contributor to body size in all small dogs."
abstract_short = "The domestic dog exhibits greater diversity in body size than any other terrestrial vertebrate. We used a strategy that exploits the breed structure of dogs to investigate the genetic basis of size. First, through a genome-wide scan, we identified a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) on chromosome 15 influencing size variation within a single breed. Second, we examined genetic variation in the 15-megabase interval surrounding the QTL in small and giant breeds and found marked evidence for a selective sweep spanning a single gene (IGF1), encoding insulin-like growth factor 1. A single IGF1 single-nucleotide polymorphism haplotype is common to all small breeds and nearly absent from giant breeds, suggesting that the same causal sequence variant is a major contributor to body size in all small dogs."
authors = [ "NB Sutter, CD Bustamante, K Chase, MM Gray, K Zhao, L Zhu, B Padhukasahasram, E Karlins, S Davis, PG Jones, P Quignon, GS Johnson, HG Parker, N Fretwell, DS Mosher, DF Lawler, E Satyaraj, M Nordborg, KG Lark, RK Wayne, EA Ostrander"  ] 
date = "2007-04-07"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "Science. 2004 Oct 1;306(5693):101-4"
publication_short = "Science"
selected = false
title = "A single IGF1 allele is a major determinant of small size in dogs."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17412960"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

