+++
abstract = "Emerging technologies allow broad profiling of the cancer genome for differential DNA methylation relative to benign cells. Herein, bisulfite-modified DNA from lymph nodes with either reactive hyperplasia or follicular lymphoma (FL) were analyzed using a commercial C/UpG genotyping assay. Two hundred fifty-nine differentially methylated targets (DMT) distributed among 183 unique genes were identified in FL. Comparison of matched formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded and frozen surgical pathology replicates showed the complete preservation of the cancer methylome among differently archived tissue specimens. Analysis of the DMT profile is consistent with a pervasive epigenomic remodeling process in FL that affects predominantly nonlymphoid genes."
abstract_short = "Emerging technologies allow broad profiling of the cancer genome for differential DNA methylation relative to benign cells. Herein, bisulfite-modified DNA from lymph nodes with either reactive hyperplasia or follicular lymphoma (FL) were analyzed using a commercial C/UpG genotyping assay. Two hundred fifty-nine differentially methylated targets (DMT) distributed among 183 unique genes were identified in FL. Comparison of matched formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded and frozen surgical pathology replicates showed the complete preservation of the cancer methylome among differently archived tissue specimens. Analysis of the DMT profile is consistent with a pervasive epigenomic remodeling process in FL that affects predominantly nonlymphoid genes."
authors = [ "JK Killian, S Bilke, S Davis, RL Walker, MS Killian, EB Jaeger, Y Chen, J Hipp, S Pittaluga, M Raffeld, R Cornelison, WI Smith, M Bibikova, JB Fan, MR Emmert-Buck, ES Jaffe, PS Meltzer"  ] 
date = "2009-01-22"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "NA"
publication_short = "Cancer Res"
selected = false
title = "Large-scale profiling of archival lymph nodes reveals pervasive remodeling of the follicular lymphoma methylome."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19155300"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

