+++
abstract = "We broadly profiled DNA methylation in breast cancers (n = 351) and benign parenchyma (n = 47) for correspondence with disease phenotype, using FFPE diagnostic surgical pathology specimens. Exploratory analysis revealed a distinctive primary invasive carcinoma subclass featuring extreme global methylation deviation. Subsequently, we tested the correlation between methylation remodeling pervasiveness and malignant biological features. A methyl deviation index (MDI) was calculated for each lesion relative to terminal ductal-lobular unit baseline, and group comparisons revealed that high-grade and short-survival estrogen receptor-positive (ER(+)) cancers manifest a significantly higher MDI than low-grade and long-survival ER(+) cancers. In contrast, ER(-) cancers display a significantly lower MDI, revealing a striking epigenomic distinction between cancer hormone receptor subtypes. Kaplan-Meier survival curves of MDI-based risk classes showed significant divergence between low- and high-risk groups. MDI showed superior prognostic performance to crude methylation levels, and MDI retained prognostic significance (P &lt; 0.01) in Cox multivariate analysis, including clinical stage and pathological grade. Most MDI targets individually are significant markers of ER(+) cancer survival. Lymphoid and mesenchymal indexes were not substantially different between ER(+) and ER(-) groups and do not explain MDI dichotomy. However, the mesenchymal index was associated with ER(+) cancer survival, and a high lymphoid index was associated with medullary carcinoma. Finally, a comparison between metastases and primary tumors suggests methylation patterns are established early and maintained through disease progression for both ER(+) and ER(-) tumors."
abstract_short = "We broadly profiled DNA methylation in breast cancers (n = 351) and benign parenchyma (n = 47) for correspondence with disease phenotype, using FFPE diagnostic surgical pathology specimens. Exploratory analysis revealed a distinctive primary invasive carcinoma subclass featuring extreme global methylation deviation. Subsequently, we tested the correlation between methylation remodeling pervasiveness and malignant biological features. A methyl deviation index (MDI) was calculated for each lesion relative to terminal ductal-lobular unit baseline, and group comparisons revealed that high-grade and short-survival estrogen receptor-positive (ER(+)) cancers manifest a significantly higher MDI than low-grade and long-survival ER(+) cancers. In contrast, ER(-) cancers display a significantly lower MDI, revealing a striking epigenomic distinction between cancer hormone receptor subtypes. Kaplan-Meier survival curves of MDI-based risk classes showed significant divergence between low- and high-risk groups. MDI showed superior prognostic performance to crude methylation levels, and MDI retained prognostic significance (P &lt; 0.01) in Cox multivariate analysis, including clinical stage and pathological grade. Most MDI targets individually are significant markers of ER(+) cancer survival. Lymphoid and mesenchymal indexes were not substantially different between ER(+) and ER(-) groups and do not explain MDI dichotomy. However, the mesenchymal index was associated with ER(+) cancer survival, and a high lymphoid index was associated with medullary carcinoma. Finally, a comparison between metastases and primary tumors suggests methylation patterns are established early and maintained through disease progression for both ER(+) and ER(-) tumors."
authors = [ "JK Killian, S Bilke, S Davis, RL Walker, E Jaeger, MS Killian, JJ Waterfall, M Bibikova, JB Fan, WI Smith, PS Meltzer"  ] 
date = "2011-06-07"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "Histopathology. 1991 Nov;19(5):403-10"
publication_short = "Am J Pathol"
selected = false
title = "A methyl-deviator epigenotype of estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma is associated with malignant biology."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21641572"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

