+++
abstract = "AIMS: In a study of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast, we identified five genes at chromosome 17q21.33 that were over-expressed in high grade cases, and showed a correlation between expression and gene copy number. The aim of this study was to investigate potential drivers of genomic amplification at 17q21.33.METHODS: Analysis of high resolution comparative genomic hybridisation and published data specified a minimum region of amplification at 17q21.33. Prohibitin (PHB) expression was examined by immunohistochemistry in 285 invasive breast cancers. Gene copy number was examined by fluorescence in situ hybridisation.RESULTS: The minimum region of amplification at 17q21.33 included ten genes with PHB selected as a candidate driver. Increased PHB expression was associated with higher grade breast cancer and poorer survival. Amplification of PHB was detected in 13 of 235 cases (5.5%) but was not associated with PHB expression. PHB amplification was most common in the ERBB2+ breast cancer subtype, although high expression was most prevalent in basal-like and luminal B cancers.CONCLUSIONS: Amplification at 17q21.33 is a recurrent feature of breast cancer that forms part of a 'firestorm' pattern of genomic aberration. PHB is not a driver of amplification, however PHB may contribute to high grade breast cancer."
abstract_short = "AIMS: In a study of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast, we identified five genes at chromosome 17q21.33 that were over-expressed in high grade cases, and showed a correlation between expression and gene copy number. The aim of this study was to investigate potential drivers of genomic amplification at 17q21.33.METHODS: Analysis of high resolution comparative genomic hybridisation and published data specified a minimum region of amplification at 17q21.33. Prohibitin (PHB) expression was examined by immunohistochemistry in 285 invasive breast cancers. Gene copy number was examined by fluorescence in situ hybridisation.RESULTS: The minimum region of amplification at 17q21.33 included ten genes with PHB selected as a candidate driver. Increased PHB expression was associated with higher grade breast cancer and poorer survival. Amplification of PHB was detected in 13 of 235 cases (5.5%) but was not associated with PHB expression. PHB amplification was most common in the ERBB2+ breast cancer subtype, although high expression was most prevalent in basal-like and luminal B cancers.CONCLUSIONS: Amplification at 17q21.33 is a recurrent feature of breast cancer that forms part of a 'firestorm' pattern of genomic aberration. PHB is not a driver of amplification, however PHB may contribute to high grade breast cancer."
authors = [ "LR Webster, PJ Provan, DJ Graham, K Byth, RL Walker, S Davis, EL Salisbury, AL Morey, RL Ward, NJ Hawkins, CL Clarke, PS Meltzer, RL Balleine"  ] 
date = "2013-11-20"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "NA"
publication_short = "Pathology"
selected = false
title = "Prohibitin expression is associated with high grade breast cancer but is not a driver of amplification at 17q21.33."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24247619"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

