+++
abstract = "Bioconductor is an open-source, open-development software project for the analysis and comprehension of high-throughput data in genomics and molecular biology. The project aims to enable interdisciplinary research, collaboration and rapid development of scientific software. Based on the statistical programming language R, Bioconductor comprises 934 interoperable packages contributed by a large, diverse community of scientists. Packages cover a range of bioinformatic and statistical applications. They undergo formal initial review and continuous automated testing. We present an overview for prospective users and contributors."
abstract_short = "Bioconductor is an open-source, open-development software project for the analysis and comprehension of high-throughput data in genomics and molecular biology. The project aims to enable interdisciplinary research, collaboration and rapid development of scientific software. Based on the statistical programming language R, Bioconductor comprises 934 interoperable packages contributed by a large, diverse community of scientists. Packages cover a range of bioinformatic and statistical applications. They undergo formal initial review and continuous automated testing. We present an overview for prospective users and contributors."
authors = [ "W Huber, VJ Carey, R Gentleman, S Anders, M Carlson, BS Carvalho, HC Bravo, S Davis, L Gatto, T Girke, R Gottardo, F Hahne, KD Hansen, RA Irizarry, M Lawrence, MI Love, J MacDonald, V Obenchain, AK Oleś, H Pagès, A Reyes, P Shannon, GK Smyth, D Tenenbaum, L Waldron, M Morgan"  ] 
date = "2015-01-31"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "Nat Biotechnol. 2013 Oct;31(10):894-7"
publication_short = "Nat Methods"
selected = true
title = "Orchestrating high-throughput genomic analysis with Bioconductor."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25633503"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

