+++
abstract = "Molecular interrogation of a biological sample through DNA sequencing, RNA and microRNA profiling, proteomics and other assays, has the potential to provide a systems level approach to predicting treatment response and disease progression, and to developing precision therapies. Large publicly funded projects have generated extensive and freely available multi-assay data resources; however, bioinformatic and statistical methods for the analysis of such experiments are still nascent. We review multi-assay genomic data resources in the areas of clinical oncology, pharmacogenomics and other perturbation experiments, population genomics and regulatory genomics and other areas, and tools for data acquisition. Finally, we review bioinformatic tools that are explicitly geared toward integrative genomic data visualization and analysis. This review provides starting points for accessing publicly available data and tools to support development of needed integrative methods."
abstract_short = "Molecular interrogation of a biological sample through DNA sequencing, RNA and microRNA profiling, proteomics and other assays, has the potential to provide a systems level approach to predicting treatment response and disease progression, and to developing precision therapies. Large publicly funded projects have generated extensive and freely available multi-assay data resources; however, bioinformatic and statistical methods for the analysis of such experiments are still nascent. We review multi-assay genomic data resources in the areas of clinical oncology, pharmacogenomics and other perturbation experiments, population genomics and regulatory genomics and other areas, and tools for data acquisition. Finally, we review bioinformatic tools that are explicitly geared toward integrative genomic data visualization and analysis. This review provides starting points for accessing publicly available data and tools to support development of needed integrative methods."
authors = [ "L Kannan, M Ramos, A Re, N El-Hachem, Z Safikhani, DM Gendoo, S Davis, D Gomez-Cabrero, R Castelo, KD Hansen, VJ Carey, M Morgan, AC Culhane, B Haibe-Kains, L Waldron"  ] 
date = "2015-10-16"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "PLoS One. 2014 Sep 02;9(9):e106397"
publication_short = "Brief Bioinform"
selected = true
title = "Public data and open source tools for multi-assay genomic investigation of disease."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26463000"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

