+++
abstract = "We have analyzed the GAW10 data from several studies of bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) using the software packages SimIBD and SIMWALK2. SimIBD implements a simulation-based affected-pedigree-member (APM) statistic, called SimAPM, as well as an APM-like statistic, also called SimIBD, that measures identical-by-descent (IBD) sharing. SIMWALK2 uses Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques to compute several IBD-based statistics on the degree of marker-allele clustering among all affected relatives. We have found no strong evidence of linkage to either chromosome 5 or 18. However, we did find that several markers showed p-values less than 0.01 and may deserve further study."
abstract_short = "We have analyzed the GAW10 data from several studies of bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) using the software packages SimIBD and SIMWALK2. SimIBD implements a simulation-based affected-pedigree-member (APM) statistic, called SimAPM, as well as an APM-like statistic, also called SimIBD, that measures identical-by-descent (IBD) sharing. SIMWALK2 uses Markov chain Monte Carlo techniques to compute several IBD-based statistics on the degree of marker-allele clustering among all affected relatives. We have found no strong evidence of linkage to either chromosome 5 or 18. However, we did find that several markers showed p-values less than 0.01 and may deserve further study."
authors = [ "S Davis, E Sobel, M Marinov, DE Weeks"  ] 
date = "1997-01-01"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"] 
publication = "NA"
publication_short = "Genet Epidemiol"
selected = false
title = "Analysis of bipolar disorder using affected relatives."
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Pubmed"
url = "https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9433550"

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

